# Getting-Cleaning-Data-Week-4-Course-Project

The purpose of this project is to demonstrate my ability to collect, work with, and clean a data set. The goal is to prepare tidy data that can be used for later analysis. The data set created through this project is a tidy data set because it has the following three characteristics as defined by Hadley Wickham in the [Tidy Data Paper](https://vita.had.co.nz/papers/tidy-data.pdf):

1. Each variable forms a column.
2. Each observation forms a row.
3. Each type of observational unit forms a table.

This R project contains the following files:

* **"CodeBook.md"** - the CodeBook in R markdown format describing:
    * The source data
    * The data processing done
    * The resulting data set
* **"CodeBook.pdf"** - the PDF version of the CodeBook generated from the above R markdown.
* **"getdata_projectfiles_UCI HAR Dataset.zip"** - a copy of the zip file containing the original source data.
* **"Getting-Cleaning-Data-Course-Tidy-Data.txt"** - a text file containing the new tidy data set generated by the "run_analysis.R" R script. This data can be loaded and viewed with the following R code:

```{r}
data <- read.table("Getting-Cleaning-Data-Course-Tidy-Data.txt", header = TRUE)

View(data)
```

* **"Getting-Cleaning-Data-Week-4-Course-Project.Rproj"** - the RStudio project file
* **"README.html"** - the HTML version of this file generated from the R markdown version
* **"README.md"** - the R markdown version of this README file which describes the contents of the git repository and the relationship between the files
* **"run_analysis.R"** - the R script that processed the original source data in order to produce the new tidy data set contained in the "Getting-Cleaning-Data-Course-Tidy-Data.txt" text file.
* **"UCI HAR Dataset"** - the directory containing all of the original source data (the contents from the "getdata_projectfiles_UCI HAR Dataset.zip" file).